SOURCE_ID: 2
SOURCE_TYPE: reddit
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/solotravel/comments/b6t9z8/what_adviceprecautions_can_you_give_to_a_girl_in/
============================================================

RichardYing

Taste local beverages (including alcohol) only if you want, and without excess. Don't drink what you didn't see poured and know what is in your glass. Always remain fully in control of your senses.


Thank you ! I will absolutely keep this in mind when I go out for drinks, I appreciate the advice :)

Just to add to this, that extends to the bartender as well, not just people buying drinks for you. A friend of mine was once drugged by the owner of a bar in Mexico who was pouring drinks for everyone!!!


When I’m traveling alone I generally don’t drink more than a single drink if I’m alone (e.g. if I’m not in a hostel). Dulling my senses in a foreign county where I may or may not know the language is dangerous and I like to keep my wits about me. Also, I’m prone to getting lost even in my own city, so I don’t want to drunkenly wander around looking for my Airbnb


This is very good advice for anyone, anywhere.


And don’t ever let anyone sucker you into bravado if you are even remotely uncomfortable. You don’t have to prove anything to anyone.

“Thanks for buying that drink, I’m gonna let it just sit there and not drink it.”


This goes for toilet breaks as well - don't leave your drink unattended at the bar with people you don't know unless you have a good reason to trust them.


Not taking a chance. Once it leaves my sight I'm not drinking it again.


Always walk with a purpose down main streets. Avoid staring at your phone map, it will target you as a tourist. Most people don’t have bad intentions, but 20+ men screaming “taxi” or “tour” at you can be very overwhelming and uncomfortable.

Also never tell someone your travelling alone (cab drivers, random conversations on the street etc..). I always say I’m about to meet up with friends, so they think someone is expecting me.

You’ll have an amazing time! Just be aware of your surroundings. Plus you’re never really alone, you’ll meet many lovely people through hostels & cafes.


In addition to this, I typically say I'm meeting up with my parents as to avoid any further talk about friends that might also be girls in their 20s.


Tip for if you NEED your Google maps to get where you're going and don't want to stare at your phone-turn the audio on, put on your headphones, and listen to the instructions! I'll often just put one earphone in so I can still hear around me and don't seem standoffish.


My default walking anywhere is pretty much power walking. I walked with such purpose down a little side street (to my HelpX host's apartment) that my host thought I was a local that got the wrong door xD I had to call her to let me in.

1 more reply

There are plenty of solo girls traveling. There’s a huge chance that you will meet one in a hostel and travel together.


That’s true. It can be easy to make friends in hostels usually right? I’ve never stayed in one before.


Yeah for the most part. Read lots of reviews, they will generally describe the vibe of the hostel, especially if it’s a bad vibe. It also depends a lot on you - if you are social and outgoing you will have an easy time. At some point you will be in a hostel and witness a bunch of people sitting around not making the first move for conversation. If you break the ice you’ll find plenty of people to talk to. Not all hostels are social. And then some are party hostels. Just depends on what you want out of your stay. I generally stay in hostels with good ratings for social vibe(and cleanliness). But sometimes I stay in party hostels if I’m bored, or quiet hostels if I just need some downtime. Download the HostelWorld, Booking.com, and Agoda apps. Between these three you’ll find what you’re looking for. As a side note, many hostels have both mixed and female only dorms. Also there is lots of good info about hostels in general in this sub and r/backpacking and r/travel.


Thank you! I’ll check out those apps and those other subreddits right now. I know I definitely like more laid back social interactions so I’ll keep that in mind when deciding where to stay. You were very helpful !!

2 more replies


I'm a 23yo US girl who's currently solo travelling for a month in Europe.

-I second the top comment advice about drinking cautiously - there's plenty of opportunity to get wasted with your friends at home :)

-pay close attention to your gut. If something feels even slightly off, don't be afraid to walk away.

-I'm wearing a $4 engagement ring from Walmart and call attention to it if a guy gets obnoxiously flirty. I have a bf and like being left alone in general so obviously take this with a grain of salt :)

-I booked female-only dorms in hostels. I feel safer at 3 am when my dorm mates come back super drunk and I know it's all girls.

-pack light! I've saved hundreds in checked luggage fees by bringing just a backpack. Also, it's much easier to move around a city when you're not lugging a full suitcase.

-make an itinerary, but don't be tied to it. Having a roadmap of what I want to see helps me not feel overwhelmed in a new place - I start walking toward my next stop and freely get distracted by an interesting side street. Also, yesterday I canceled most of my day in Barcelona because the beach was absolutely perfect. I missed out on seeing a chocolate museum, but the trade-off was well worth it :)

-remind yourself you can always come back!! 2.5 days in Barcelona wasn't nearly enough, but I can't wait to come back with a working feel for the city.


I was coming here to say basically this. (solo female traveler for 6 years).

-The fake engagement ring works 80% of the time- the times it doesn't is typically around central/south america. (and you'll end up with a great story then).

-Limit yourself to a carry on. You seriously don't need anything else.

-pay attention to your gut. Women's guts are better than men's. (tell that to your mom!)


I spent a month in the Dominican Republic. Central/South American men might be the most persistent in the world. I told one I loved my boyfriend and he responded "could you not love 2 boyfriends." 😂 But in Europe it's been very successful so far!

3 more replies

You'll hear a lot of the general basics (don't get drunk alone, pack light, have money in various places, etc) but one thing that is a big deal for me, bring feminine hygiene products that you prefer. A lot of countries still consider tampons to be "taboo" and are difficult to find. Even buying pads isn't always easy. I remember standing in the aisle of Japan trying to figure out how many ml of blood I would lose and how many cm long I want it to be... Think I ended up buying 5 different ones and a candy bar lol for me, this is a little bit of comfort and makes life easier at a bad time


Unless you know a guy extremely well, and are willing/interested in sleeping with them, don’t stay with a guy. I realize that not all men are assholes, but the two times I stayed with guys I had to aggressively tell them that I wasn’t there for sex.


Agree. It’s been 50/50 with me. One guy is great and doesn’t do anything and the other, well, had to say no about 5000 times and they still didn’t get it.

If they say “let’s go get a drink at my room” I say no as well.


Sorry to hear that. As a man who is about tot start solotraveling I'm sad to read these kind of experiences.


Damn sorry to hear that. I’ll keep this in mind when meeting new people so I don’t put myself in those kinds of situations. Thank you !


Do your research. There’s lots of information on line and/or in guide books. You can find a hostel or budget accommodations that will fit your needs. Cities and areas within cities vary greatly as to safety. Know whether you should take a taxi or ride share rather than public transportation or walking. Leave your expensive jewelry at home. Look like you know where you’re going. If you get lost, pop into a store or coffee shop - look at your map or ask for directions an hit the street with confidence.

Look at maps to help with your schedule. Look at some guided tour itineraries to give you an idea of how long to spend in various locations and what attractions you will want to see.

Learn a few words and phrases in the local language. Hello, yes, no, please, thank you, how much, where, etc. can really open doors for you. Also, be prepared to mess up and be able to laugh at yourself when you do.

Talk to the locals. Ask what you should see or where you should eat.

Be prepared to eat alone (take a book or something to occupy yourself) but be open when you’re asked to join others.

Be open to new experiences because that’s the beauty of solo travel! Have a great trip!


Thank you, your response actually made me even more excited to go. These are all really great points, especially hiding in a coffee shop when you’re lost haha. I’m currently learning a bit of Italian (I’m no where near being ready to form sentences, but I will be when I go!) and I took some French in college! I hope that will be enough to get me around, but I’ll make an effort for whatever country I’m in to learn a bit of their first language.


I am a male solo traveller so my advice is not first hand, but I would say trust your gut feeling. If a situation or a person induces a strange feeling it is okay to walk away from that. With that in mind, be open to new experiences and meeting new people but also ready to just walk away when something feels off. The more you travel, the more you will develop a sense on who you can trust and who might harm you. Don't fear pressurized into something by thinking you might miss out if something feels off.

Also be a bit careful who you give your contact to social media; if it is hard for you to turn them down you can have a secondary account only for that purpose.

Depending on how long you want to travel, I would suggest installing the app Meetup to meet new people; normally every city has several events where you can meet fellow travelers and have some cool experiences :)

Regarding food: don't shy away from local food and street food (this applies mostly to Asia) . Depending on where you are going in Asia, eat Street food from stalls where there are some people queuing as these stalls tend to be more hygienic. Inform yourself where you can and cannot drink tap water. Also inform yourself what is appropriate clothing in religious places (if you want to see them) as their dress codes tend to be stricter for girls.

Be ready to change plans for spontaneous trips, some of the best experiences I had were because I joined some people last minute and it turned out to be so much fun :)

Lastly try to talk with locals and ask a lot of questions to get to know the culture better. I would advise to learn some basic local words as the locals tend to be so much friendlier if you try to speak their language. Enjoy your solo trip and the chance to do whatever you like without having to consider other peoples opinions :)


This is all very great advice thank you ! Someone else also suggested a secondary social media account and I thought it was a really good idea, I’ll most likely do that. I really want to experience everything, not just the touristy stuff, so I’ll definitely try the cuisine and try to chat up locals to the best of my ability. I’m pretty excited to try an Italian espresso(and wine tbh) and maybe some Japanese street food if I get the opportunity to go to Asia.


SBW traveling solo for 2 decades: consider small intimate lodgings where you can connect with owner/staff and be noticed/missed. Abroad some of these will usually offer breakfast, which can occasion meeting others. You can also have reliable source for local info. and where off hidden treasures can be found. I don’t do hostels because they don’t suit my style and I’m old cynical and not very trusting sometimes (LOL).

I always arrange for a driver or cabbie who I use all the time if possible. The hotel might be able to provide this. In urban areas I use public transportation—I practice and remember the routes at night and write notes on my hand.

I eat all goods and live street food. Be aware of how your digestive system works, though, and take some familiar meds with you in case you eat something disagreeable.

Agree with sm suggestion above.

The other thing I will say about Asia—lived in Shanghai for 5 mos and traveled the country—as BW stick out and draw attention (because of magical essence of excellence and majestic beauty, of course). I had a plan for when I was about to deal with the attention and requests for photos.

Generally I say dress comfortable but check the practice for where you are going. It’s touristy to be a tourist, but whispering rather than screaming it lessens vulnerability (someone else already gave great tips about moving through the space)

In Eur and Asia an unlocked cell phone would be a good idea. You can buy a sim so you can do texting and calling locally. You can get these on Amazon pretty reasonably. And it’s something you can use on future trips.

Go where you want like you belong there and enjoy every minute. Confidently in your being dare anyone to test your awesomeness!


THIS THIS THIS! MAKE A FRIEND in your place of temporary abode, the payoffs just don’t stop. In Guatemala I chose only small and very small places, the first of which was recommended by a friendly passenger on the bus into town (chicken bus of course! :)) and each subsequent place was “my sister and her husband run a place in....”. I made friends by: offering to babysit, offering to either help prep or cook, or serve and scrub up after, and upon leaving anytime, especially at the beginning of a new place/area, I would check if my new friend needed anything small from where I was heading, creating a natural opportunity to tell them where I’m going, and building in an expectation of my return :D win win win! IMHO, another stellar piece of advice I have seen in this thread was the recommendation to book short upfront, assuming the place is not in such demand that you stand to possibly lose out on accommodations entirely . A short booking up front lets you see what the place is like, while having a safe place to explore what OTHER local places are like… and as you meet other hostellers , they will brag on or slag on the place they are staying/have stayed and you’ll learn even more, without being stuck! Don’t forget to learn not just the exchange rate, but WHAT THAT BUYS.... a travel writer I really like tells the following at the end of his place chapters: the cost of a local bus ride, cup of coffee, museum entrance annnddd....there’s one more thing he does...I think it’s a pint of beer...? Anyway, I’m sorry I DO go on, I am SO KEEN on travel, and like yourself starting out now, I daydreamed about it so much before I struck out alone. I am SO EXCITED FOR YOU really. Travel is maybe the best thing ever! Go be brave, please be observant, never be embarrassed to try!

And if you aren’t put off by my rambling, you are welcome to PM me for any travel anything...I’ve been a ton of places, including a fair amount of solo travel, from my first solo plane trip at 7 (when you could still do that....and smoke on the flight as well!) up to Daytona Beach Bike week, alone, two weeks ago! ;)


I’m also a female in my earlier 20s with a mom who’s a bit of a worrier. I went on my first solo trip this past summer and there were a few things I found really helpful:

Show your mom that you’ve researched safe accommodations. I talked with my mom about how I’d researched which areas of each city are safe to stay in, I booked all female dorms in hostels when I could (and when it wasn’t crazy expensive), and I showed her photos of some of the hostels online so she could see that they were clean, etc. Look up articles about staying safe as a female in a hostel or not getting robbed, and talk about some of the things you read. It made my mom feel a lot better to know that I was also thinking a lot about my safety.

Make sure you talk with your mom about how and how much you’ll be contacting home while you’re away. This was my first solo trip ever and I talk a lot with my mom in my regular day to day life, so I personally made a deal with her that I would send her an email at the end of every day when I was back at the hostel. Of course, if you’re not as close with your mom or if you don’t expect to have consistent access to wifi then this might not be realistic, but make sure she knows how much she can expect to hear from you. (This also ended up being an excellent record of my trip in the end, and my mom would forward each email to my grandparents so they could follow along with my adventures!)

Explore cities at night with other people from your hostel. In Budapest, I walked around the city at night with a girl I had just met a couple hours earlier in my hostel room. Both of us got to feel safer having someone else watch our back and I got to know a new friend while seeing a beautiful city at night!

Other than that, just use your common sense and trust your instincts. Do your research, make sure you know what to do if something goes wrong and talk to your mom about it. If she’s anything like my mom, it’ll make her feel better to know you’ve thought about all the same scary what-ifs that she has.

Have fun!


Thank you for the advice. My mom would appreciate an email every day (probably every hour too if I’m being honest lol) and I can try to keep her more in the loop of where I’ll be staying. It’ll make me feel better knowing she’ll know where I am too. I’m looking into hostels now and different prices for Airbnb’s Incase that’s something I might feel better in. I might do a mixture of both so I can get a well rounded experience. :)


Experienced female solo traveller checking in:
I dont see body language mentioned anywhere, so I'll add that. People have mistaken me for a local pretty much everywhere I've gone for the past ten years, I have to say its a lot nicer than being chased down every road and beach by local bracelet vendors etc. My favorite experience was when I was in Athens and drawing quick pictures of life around a market square for a couple hourse, when suddenly the other guys selling selfie-sticks and crap also started hawking my drawings to other tourists :D
So: Be aware of your body language. If you are standing still in the middle of the sidewalk, staring at the local church in awe, you are obviously new in town. Not that there is anything wrong with that, but it does attract those looking to take advantage of new people in town. Compare that first scenario to how you walk down a sidewalk in your hometown, where nothing is new, you know where you are going, and your eyes are usually looking straight ahead or down at the ground. This, and clothing, is part of the reason tourists are so easy to spot. And dont be afraid to practice resting bitch face, its a useful skill to have.


Also I’ve found that in several countries, if you meet the eyes of men you pass, they take it as a challenge or an invitation. Not a problem for big city girls though, since we tend not to look in strangers’ eyes when we pass them on the street.


This should be higher in the thread.


We're all tourists down here
You've got a lot of practical advice here, and a lot of the important stuff is just the behaviours and actions you unfortunately have to use right now to stay safe in your normal life. So I'm going to suggest a change in mindset instead: stop referring to yourself, and stop letting people refer to you, as a 'girl'. Because this:

but that’s because you’re a girl and he’s a man,

Is so damn telling. He is not a boy but you are a girl. It's an infantilising choice of words, it's making you childlike. You're not a girl. You're a woman. A fully grown adult competent female human being. Someone who can say no, who can trust their gut, who isn't driven by a need to please strangers. Internalising that truth will make you more confident.


Yes you’re right. Unfortunately that’s how my mom always says it when I bring it up. Plus my brother is 11 years older than me so she sees him as much more grown up than me but still. I’ll try to keep that in mind and correct myself in the future :) thank you!


You read my mind. OP, give yourself the credit you deserve. You’re an adult.

1 more reply

Travelling solo is the best! Honestly, I've travelled in herds of buddies from uni, possies of girls from schools, or my best gbf, and my best experiences have actually been on my own! Of course, being with your really good friends is great, fun, laugh so hard your drink comes out through your nose etc.

You spend a shit load of time arguing about where to go and waiting for people though! The bigger and "more fun" the group, the harder it is to coordinate. Imagine trying to herd cats and you get the picture!

Also, what many people don't realise is that when you travel solo, you're rarely alone! It's much easier to meet people and make local or fellow traveller connections when you are on your own, you're less scary and more approachable :)

If you stay in hostels, you'll make tons of buddies in no time. Good hostels organize pub crawls, day trips and there's often chill area, pool table etc.

TIPS: It may sound painfully obvious, but don't get drunk on your own. Tell someone at your hotel/hostel where you are going if you head out for the evening. Keep your phone close and some emergency money stuffed in your bra!

Make friends with older people, they often have the best stories. Befriend lonely bar flies and lend them an ear.

Pack LOTS of pants and socks. And have fun!


Firstly, you are capable of traveling. You might be a “beginner,” but this isn’t a problem or a barrier - everyone learns as they go. So try to start with that mindset. No harm in starting small with trips to a few places in the US where things are familiar to get a bit of practice.

Getting started is as easy as booking tickets and making reservations - maybe pick a city that is known for tourism as a first dive into solo travel.

For me, I love the frugality + potential community of hostels but always felt a bit more comfortable by selecting a bed in a female-only dorm situation. Haven’t had any negative hostel experiences outside of the usual annoyances like noise.

For safety, of course you’re responsible for looking out for yourself and your belongings so keep a sharp eye and don’t be overly trusting to strangers.

Also, My must for solo travel is walking tours, which are often free/tip only. Super fun, you always learn something, and it breaks up the solitude a bit. That, and I always bring a book to read in parks and in cafes when I am tired of sightseeing.

You’ll do fine. :)

Learn to say NO without feeling guilty


Get maps.me local files and/or Google maps local files downloaded before you get to a new city. GPS works without a cell phone data connection. Use the map to make sure taxis are going where you asked to go, and if they're not then get out and walk into 7-11 or something to get help. I literally got taken for a ride when trying to buy a train ticket, and ended up on the other side of town because they were trying to get me to buy a ticket from a travel agent. Ask hostel workers for help buying train/bus tickets, and don't try to walk 3 miles to a station while looking at a map. Also, any taxi driver who says something is closed for a special holiday, but they'll take you somewhere else they know is still open is 99% of the time lying.


Use the map to make sure taxis are going where you asked to go,

100% agree. I pull out my phone everytime I'm in a taxi and it works really well to keep them from driving around in circles.


Hey! I'm actually in the exact same position as you. I'm 21 and my mom gets worried of I even go into town alone, but I've been saving up money to go to Hong Kong, and I also have no one to go with me. I suggest coming up with a plan on paper to show to your mom. I'm in the process of doing this. It'll show budget, place of stay, safety precautions, etc.


I was just reading through some of the responses before responding to the OP, but I just want to say I am a 26F and I lived in Hong Kong for a year. It is literally the safest city, ever, everyone speaks English, and you can get a taste of Asia without having full on culture shock. HK is an awesome place in and of itself, but if your mom is still worried, just let her know that crime against foreigners is so small, you can walk around in the middle of the night and no one will bother you. Safer than most US or Canadian cities at night, for sure.

Edit: just to help out a bit

stay on the main HK island if you can, there are a lot of hostels and hotels in Tsim Sha Tsui (TST) across the canal, but for a first time traveller, it may not be the best experience. Definitely visit that area, but all of my friends who have stayed there said it was not ideal

Do not stay in the Cheung King Mansions, that's where most of the seedy stuff happens -Wan Chai, Causeway Bay, Soho, Sheung Wan are all super central and multiple Metro lines go there

Get yourself an octopus card as soon as you arrive at the airport, you'll use transit to go everywhere!

if you have a chance, visit Stanley, Clearwater Bay and Sai Kung, and if you like kayaking, do a geopark paddle trip with a guide in Sai Kung

Last but not least, Lantau Island is where Disneyland the airport, and the Bug Buddha is, but do not skip out on visiting Lamma Island! That's where I lived in HK, and it's this sleepy island, just 30 mins away by ferry. No cars, very cool hippie feeling, tons of great views and hikes, and it houses HK's only Wind Turbine

4 more replies

1 more reply

I just responded to another girls post about Hong Kong, which got lengthy, but now I'm ready to respond to you!

I'm actually currently writing this while traveling solo from Prague to Vienna. I'm a 26F and started solo traveling when I went against everything my mom said and moved to China when I was 23 years old.

I read that you were thinking Italy and then Vietnam? I can't say too much about Italy, but I've been to Vietnam twice and I have loads of tips for a solo female traveler there if you want to DM me.

As for general guidelines:

Don't book too many things in advance. I found when I did that, I ended up missing out on stuff that I didn't have time to do

Hostels are a great way to meet other solo travelers. If you like the idea of being social, but still having your own space, pay a little extra for a private room in a hostel, many hostels in SE Asia have them

For safety, just trust your gut. So many people have given great advice on that, but to add on... No one is out to get you, but do your research before going to a place. Especially in Asia, make sure you are dressed comfortably, but still appropriate to your activities for the day (ie. Temples you need to cover your shoulders, etc)

Learn phrases like "hello," "thank you," "goodbye," "I'm from ____," and my favourite "English, please" in the local languages. Even knowing simple phrases will help you "win over" the locals, so to speak. Im in Czech Republic right now and trust me, it has gotten me a few smiles and extra help from the servers and train station attendants.

Count your money! Know what you are paying and know how much change you should be getting back! Especially in Asia. Like I said, no one is out to get you, but "harmlessly" giving you less change is a huge issue in marketplaces with lots of tourists

In Asia, always be aware of your body, where are you keeping your things, no hanging jewelry, I've not had a big issue, but I saw someone's camera bag get snatched by a passing motorcyclist. Oh, stand back from curbs if you're waiting to cross...

Also, just don't wait to cross in Vietnam. Be safe about it, but step onto the street in an empty space and walk through at a steady pace, no one will hit you unless you randomly stop or start going a different speed, they will go around you, and that's how they keep the flow of traffic going

Be open to new experiences! They are what makes the trip so great. Do all the things you want to, but take a day and do something completely off your itinerary with new friends, or by yourself. These are the times you'll remember the most, because they were unexpected.

If you have any other questions, DM me! Like I said, I have tons of experience in Asia because I lived there for two years, am traveling alone at this very moment, and have so many recommendations for Vietnam! Good luck!

Edit: Be aware of the ice in Vietnam! You can contract some pretty hefty stomach bugs from bad ice. Make sure they have little holes in them, which means they were purchased and the ice is made with distilled water. It's so hot I had to have iced drinks all the time, but I usually have a stomach of steel.


Do you mind if I DM you about solo traveling to Asia?

1 more reply

I am a solo traveller probably around your mums age. She may be happy to know that older people travel solo a well.


A lot of useful info has already been shared. I just want to add a few things:
I happily go out drinking (not getting super drunk, but having a pint or two at a pub) alone if I feel safe in the area. However, I prefer doing this on weekdays, as places are less crowded, staff is less busy, and most people will be regulars. I tend to sit at the bar and talk or read, and feel pretty safe as people notice me - unlike if I'm on a crowded dance floor surrounded by super drunk people.
If I go out to a good restaurant alone, I'll also do it during the week for similar reasons.

If you don't feel safe, then change the circumstances. I recently cancelled a hostel reservation as I arrived in a run down area after dark, by foot, got a bit lost and a stranger started to hit on me and follow me. I had already been at a more expensive hostel in the city a few weeks earlier, so I checked on Hostelworld that they were available and went back. It ended up costing me like 20 USD extra which sucked, but was totally worth it for the peace of mind. I've been in similar situations before and I always find it worth it to spend the extra money on those occasions just to feel safe (disclaimer: It doesn't happen on every trip so don't freak out).

I've seen other people on Reddit suggest getting a fake wedding ring for traveling, to avoid some creeps. There's been situations where that would also have made my life a bit more comfortable, especially when I have been traveling outside Europe/North America. I'm Scandinavian, so I stand out by being pale, blonde and blue eyed, and get unwanted attention when I travel further away.

I have a bra wallet (tiny purse/fabric bag that goes in the bra) where I keep an ID, a back up credit card and any excessive cash when I travel. I have a scanned copy of my passport emailed to myself so I can always access it if needed. In general, I make sure I have email copies of any documents I might need.
I travel with a menstrual cup as it's tiny and don't have to worry about buying pads abroad. And I always travel with insurance.

I use Meetup.com, Couchsurfing Hangouts, and cooking in hostels (kitchens are great places to strike up conversations as food is then an easy topic) as ways to meet people.

As for making your mom worry less: Show her you have everything ready and back up plans. Have accommodation lined up for the first few nights, make sure you have like 1000 USD as emergency funds (i.e. around the price of a last minute emergency flight home), have contact info on the embassy ready, find an insurance plan, make a detailed budget and a (very flexible) plan, look into phone contracts that work abroad, etc. Show her the safety tips you plan on following. This will make her see that you are very serious about going, and not just going on a whim.
Maybe include your reasons for going - not drinking wine in Italy, but improving your communication skills, learning about foreign cultures, meeting new people, grow more confident, added CV value from speaking an extra language, etc.

Have fun!


Solo traveller here. Me, F/30. I’ve backpacked solo around Europe for 3 months alone at 20, done solo traveling in the states also.

Best advice: don’t put yourself in vulnerable situations (getting drunk, etc). I’ve made the mistake of being blackout drunk almost daily and putting myself in extremely dangerous situations to the point I was kidnapped and held at gunpoint.

Also, if you’re a smoker, do not accept cigarettes from others. I did that once and it was laced with cocaine.

Be sober, be aware of people around you and keep your wallet inside your pants/waistband. Also, study and memorize maps and subway systems. Walking around with a map all day will only make you a target. Act like a local, blend in and learn basic phrases/language.

Shop at local grocery stores for food. Eating out is pricey. Hostels are the way to go. I’ve met amazing people and made life long friends from hostels! Read reviews/comments on hostels before booking.

Hostelworld.com and hostels.com

If you have any questions, PM me anytime. I’d be more than happy to point you in the right direction and places to see.

Also, fuck gender roles and expectations placed on women. Half my family said the same - “don’t travel alone etc etc”. I gave them the middle finger and travelled anyway. Don’t let others and their fears hold you back.


Honestly, I prefer traveling alone because it allows me to see what I want. Not to sound selfish, but traveling is expensive and being in control of my expenses and experiences is really important to me. You've gotten a lot of great advice so far! Few tips:

As everyone else has said: if something or someone makes you uncomfortable, get out of the there.

Don't overshare. I love sitting at the counter/bar area in a restaurant whenever possible because it's easy to talk to other solo diners. That said, there's a difference between being friendly and oversharing. It's okay to lie if needed for safety about your occupation, relationship status, etc.

Get a solar charger for your cell phone. You'll likely end up using your phone far more than you expect, so for the little extra weight, get a solar charger so you don't have to find somewhere to plug your phone in during the day. I always prioritize charging my phone at night but stuff happens and that might not always be possible.

Print out a few paper maps or get a popup map. Definitely download maps you know you'll need to your phone. However sometimes it's nice to see a big picture view of a city, so I still like to use small (single sheets I can discard) maps. Also use them to get a better feel for the area you'll be in. I always study the area where I'll be spending the most time in order to get a basic feel for the city's layout. Google's MyMaps is a great tool for trip planning. If you know where you'll be staying, pin it and then pin other places of interest (museums, restaurants, shops, etc.). I rarely drive when I travel, so it can be useful for planning to see if things you're interested in are grouped together or not and if they're near public transportation. You can also Google neighborhoods if you're worried about crime (that's ruled out a few places for me in the past). Finally, do a bit of research about the public transportation system. It's your friend, but it's in a different language, so knowing basic end points and your important stops before getting on it really helps. A street map overlaid with the subway map is really useful.

Carry some cash and a backup credit card, kept separate from your other cards. Small local places don't always accept credit cards and if your wallet were to be stolen, a backup card would be very useful. I use a small crossbody purse for some added safety and because it's far easier to carry all day than something that you'll need to keep adjusting on your shoulder. Don't keep your id/credit cards in a case with your phone. My sister uses a phone wallet and had the whole thing snatched out of her hand during a call, thankfully she wasn't traveling but it was still a pain to cancel/replace everything. I'd also suggest a coat with zipper pockets. A small card/money holder and your phone can easily be stored in your coat pockets at night if you want to walk around without your purse.

Waterproof, comfortable shoes. Bring at least two pairs of shoes (one for walking, one cute pair but still good for walking). Having been caught in rain several times in normal shoes, I make it a point to bring waterproof shoes with me now. I also recommend walking around your neighborhood for a few miles (3-5) in whatever shoes you plan to wear. The last thing you want is a bad blister, so knowing in advance if your shoes are comfortable for long walks/standing is critical.

Check out some of the travel websites for clothing ideas. You're never going to 100% look like a local, but if you're in Europe, a couple H&M and/or Zara pieces are worth the small investment. Using a capsule travel wardrobe will make packing and landry much easier. Also if you plan to go to any religious sites (the Vatican, churchs, etc.), check their clothing requirements (skirt below the knee, shoulders covered, etc.).

Pack light. If you can get away with a 30L backpack, do it! Traveling when it's warm really helps because you can wear less/lighter clothes. Leave room for a few items you may need/want to buy but pack as light as you can. Wheeled bags are great but Europe has a lot of old buildings (stairs and wheeled bags don't mix) and you may need to walk a bit (uneven pavement and wheels = badness), so carrying something on your back will be more practical. Don't buy travel clothes (bulky and draw attention better than a neon sign), but go for light, fast drying fabrics.

Dealing with a worried mother: as an only child, I can relate to your situation. I've found sharing hotel details and texting or emailing at night really helps. Also, try showing her TripAdvisor reviews saying the area is safe (assuming that's the case). Yes, you're an adult but you also have a relationship with her and I'm sure she means well, so letting her know the places you're going to are safe should help her.

When in a situation that your care for your self can be interpreted as rude, accept that your safety and comfort are more important than being polite. There's no such thing as too careful when you're in an unfamiliar environment.

I'm a solo female traveller and started traveling by myself at 22-23. I rarely drink when I am traveling. I really only wine poured from a bottle opened in front of me or drinks at a bar I deem "safe" such as a nice hotel's bar. I always keep the numbers of the place I'm staying with me and always keep my phone charged and with an extra battery pack in my bag in case I run low. I don't stay out too long after dark unless it is a populated place. Exercise common sense. Also be careful with taxis in many countries- research before you go about safe transportation in whichever country you're in. You may have experiences where people see a naive traveler and will take advantage of them. Maybe start with "easier" countries first to build up your confidence before you set off to places with more language and cultural barriers etc. If you want to go to Europe that is a great place to start but places in SEA like Thailand have strong tourist infrastructure and are easy for new travelers.

Also an important skill as a solo traveller and especially a female solo traveller is the ability to tell people "no" and politely tell them to leave you alone. Walk "with purpose" so people won't think you're a bumbling traveler and they will leave you alone. Unfortunately, people see women (especially foreigners) as easy targets for scams and harassment oftentimes because we are taught that refusing people is rude.

Also resist the temptation to bring a ton of stuff with you.... for all of my trips I only bring a backpack and a carryon suitcase. My first trip I brought a checked bag and it was full of stuff I didn't even need and it only slowed me down. Much easier to use public transport when you just have a small bag.

And I'm not sure if hostels are more or less safe than other accommodations- I usually stay in airbnbs, sometimes with hosts and sometimes solo. It's easy to meet people in hostels.

And... as someone who also has a worrier mom it helps a ton to provide a full itinerary to them to show that you've planned. Provide phone #s to all of your accommodations. And call them every once in a while to let them know you're having a great time.


I’ve found these items to be very helpful:

Door wedge - just in case you stay in a room without a lock, or just want some extra precaution. A regular door wedge will do, but there’s an electronic one that when pressed, will make a loud alarm sound that’ll wake you up.

Personal alarm - I have one that looks like a bag charm. When you pull out the chain it makes a loud alarm that’ll attract attention while you can run away in a dangerous situation. Screaming uses up a lot of energy.

Cap and baggy sweater - helps you be less conspicuous. When I was in Italy I didn’t want it to be obvious that I was a solo female traveller, and the cap and baggy sweater helped.

A bicycle lock, one of those with a long loop - I use this to secure my backpack (which can be locked as well) to my bed when I go out, as well as when I want to catch a nap on the road and need my backpack secured to something. A lot of thieves are opportunistic ones and will leave your things alone when they look hard to break into.

Mini torch - you’ll always need one whether it’s coming back to a pitch-black dorm in the middle of the night, or feeling your way up some tiny stairway without a light.

A big scarf or Turkish towel - it’s multipurpose and you can use it for warmth, at the beach, to towel off after being caught in a shower, or as a cover-up when you visit religious sites.

Sleep sack - this one’s a bit of a luxury but a silk sleep sack is amazing. It’s like a sleeping bag you put on your mattress and get into. You never have to worry about the mattress being grungy, plus the silk regulates the temperature.

Ear plugs and eye mask - for those noisy flights and dorms. Wouldn’t recommend blocking all your senses though.

If you have the choice between a backpack and wheely, always go for the backpack. Get a front-loading one (not a top load unless you want to pull out all your stuff everytime you need one item) that’s lockable. I have the Osprey Far Point 55 and I love it to bits. Also get a rain cover for it.

Also more general advice: take a self-defence class before you go if you can, always walk with purpose, duck into a shop or cafe if you have to consult a map. Go for free walking tours. Bring some souvenirs or snacks from your home country that you can gift to friends you make on the road.

It sounds like solo travel as a female can be scary, but the reverse is also true: most people are kinder to you when they realise you’re a girl travelling solo. I’ve had strangers help me or give me little gifts, and the connection with them is what makes these trips the best :)


Single female traveler here. There’s so much great advice on this thread so I won’t over-add, but I do want to share with you something that happened to me last week: sexual assault because I was afraid of seeming rude to some men hanging around outside of the bar I had just left.

So I’d like to add, NEVER put “not looking like a bitch” over your own safety. If you don’t want to talk, don’t. Like others have said, walk purposefully and do your best to mimic what you see other locals doing in the area (is no one else wearing purses, only cross straps? Are there no women walking closest to the street, or closest to storefronts? Are people generally chatty, or reserved?)

I hope you enjoy your travels, good luck!


Assume that anyone who approaches you on the street, especially in tourist areas, is trying to scam you. If such a person strikes up a conversation with you and invites you to his or her home, don't go. If they offer you a free string bracelet or free anything, don't take it.

Nothing is free, no one just wants to "practice their English," and no one has a sister/brother living or working in your hometown and wants to have coffee with you because of that.

None of that advice is gender specific.


Male traveler here. I think having a dummy social media account is a good idea. Even if a guy doesnt seem creepy, you can give then some time to show their true colors before you open up your entire life to some creeper.


That’s a really good idea, thanks ! I’m not a huge social media person but I might do that if/when I travel abroad. Thank you !

19 more replies

Dontlisten to allthe people telling you other people are dangerous. But still, be careful and make your pepper spray your best friend. As long as you are ok phisically every situation has a solution. Worst case scenario your parents buy you a ticket home.


Not female, but this is the same advice I'd give any first time traveller about being safe of any gender, just because you are on holiday don't lose/switch off the street smarts you have at home.

It's easy to get into the everything is wonderful mood and be a bit less cautious, but if you wouldn't walk down a dark dodgy alley at home....

Trust your gut instinct, don't get pushed into situations you don't want to, and if you are worried hassled in a bar or something feel free to make noise and bring attention to your distress.


I completely agree with you. I have pretty good gut instincts, I’ll try not to lose them just because I’m traveling. I think my mom’s biggest worry is something sketchy happening to me while out at night, but I just need to be smart about it all. Thanks for the reply !


Exactly! Use the same cues you use at home to read whether a neighborhood is safe. Other travelers/staff at your accommodations can also be great help.

Go, see the world, eat the food and have fun!


Always be aware of your surroundings, be safe and have fun. Wish I had the"balls" to do it when I was in my 20's, 47 now and planning an American tour 🤙

It's understandable for parents to be worried about their kids going travelling by themselves. Traditionally, men are seen to be more capable of looking after themselves even though that's far from true. Your mum is projecting her fears on you and that's not fair. I think maybe she might see you as her "little girl" still. I've solo traveled since i was 16/17 (although stayed with friends and their families) and I've never really had any problems. My advice is just to try and be a bit street smart, read up on the country's culture and local etiquette, be kind and most importantly trust your gut instinct, you'll be fine :)


I’m travelling in Asia at the moment (first time here) and the thing that’s shocked me the most is how much sexual harassment I get from men. I’m currently in Sri Lanka and it’s kind of exhausting constantly having to tell people no or make small talk and find a way to leave because they’re trying to hit on me. So be aware that this will likely happen to you (Europe is generally much better for this so for Asia) and try to not let it get you down. Stay safe too, be comfortable saying no firmly to people and trust your instinct. Also let your mum know where you’re staying and when you get to each place, keeps you both feeling safer! You’ll make a ton of friends in hostels (as well we being more by yourself sometimes) and you can find some great ones for less than $10 a night. I use booking.com and always check the reviews. Make sure you have enough money plus some extra. When you’re packing remember that you can wash things as you go and pack light, and you can buy most things you need in the country you’re in for far cheaper if you’re not sure. Make sure you’ve had travel vaccinations and have spoken to your doctor or a travel nurse!! Also get SIM cards for countries you’re in for a while, they help a lot. Sorry for the wall of text- mobile also!!

2 more replies

In most countries in central and Eastern Europe, I found private air bnbs for just about the same price as hostels! Nothing beats having your own shower and kitchen area, and not having to chain your belongings to a bed rail.

Im a female in my 20s and i traveled recently with my male friend. I was terrified of sleeping in a room with guys other than him. My first night in Berlin, the hostel overbooked our room. My buddy was on the other side of the building and I had to spend my first night ALONE in a room with 5 guys. Luckily the worst that happened was they partied too loudly and they didn’t know where to find pot haha

Best of luck on your travels. If you go to Europe, definitely get a SIM card, most work in the entire EU.

Remember: AIR BNB :) :)


Yeah after doing some more research I’m leaning towards Airbnb’s! I might try a hostel for the experience but I think I’d be more comfortable in a private room with a host family or having an apartment to myself. Thank you!

1 more reply

Keep in mind that if you stay in hostels (which I recommend, my fav app is hostelworld) you'll be able to make friends very easily, and hang out with them and walk around with them a lot (of course, if you want). I travelled solo to Morocco 2 years ago, and my mom was very worried about me being alone there, but I met a group of about 4-5 super nice people in the first Moroccan city I went to, and we actually all ended up travelling around together, and had the best time. So you'll have an option to be around people a lot, and to rarely be alone. Nevertheless, talk to other travellers as they'll give you tips, advice and recommendations.

Don't blindly trust travel guide books, but rather read blog posts about the destinations you wanna visit.

Be wary of your surroundings when walking around, but don't be paranoid because you won't be able to enjoy anything. Don't be naive and too trusting, but also don't be afraid to ask for help/directions and talk to locals. You'll soon see that there are incredibly kind and friendly people everywhere.

When you're taking a taxi, always have GPS on and check if you're going the right way. (maps.me is a good app for offline maps)

Don't plan super far in advance, because opportunities to go a different route come up all the time! I generally never plan more than a few days in advance (except a rough plan, of course), and the few times I did, I always wanted to do something else instead (because I either met friends that were going the other way, or someone recommended something that I previously didn't know even existed).

Being nervous and feeling out of place for the first few days is normal, just push through it and join some hostel activities/walking tours to meet new friends. Getting homesick/just sick of everything in general is normal as well, so depending on the length of your trip, don't feel bad if you wanna stay in and read/netflix for a day (or 2).

Travelling solo is amazing! It'll teach you things about yourself and the world like nothing else can, and despite all the advice given here, you'll get into the swing of things very quickly once you're on the road. Have a good trip!

First I'd tell your mum how damn insulting it is for her to suggest you can't look after yourself - not just to you, but to her as the parent that raised you!

Go and have fun is the main thing. Safety shouldn't be your primary concern. You should have travel goals to accomplish! Places to see, activities to do, things to learn, people to meet.

The biggest safety precaution is this - when you don't feel good about someone, don't hang around and don't feel any need to be polite. You can just fuck em off.

In fact, getting rude helps, because aggressors are looking for a weak pushover woman, not one who talks back.

So yeah. Just stick up for yourself. Don't take no shit. There's no magic to it really - you just have to stop being a nice girl and start being a bitch to people you don't want around you. Save the nice girl act for the ones you do.

Your gut will tell you when you don't wanna be around them. Listen to it. Most people the world over are the same as you - awesome and generous. There's always one asshole, spot them and don't tolerate them, and enjoy the rest.


Always be aware of your surroundings. If you look like an easy target, you'll be an easy target. Sad to say, but there's a lot of scammers and pickpocketing.

Just remember the basics of saying no to strangers. If they say, they'll give you a ride or come over to their house, then obviously say no. Some people also act nice to do harm, so just be aware of everyone. Also, it helps if you look like you're on a mission verse looking lost.

Drinking is okay, but in moderation. Watch your drinks and don't drink excessively. You still want to be in control of yourself.

As for your mom, give her your itinerary and tell her you'll try to text her during your trip for an update. I text my mom when I leave and arrive each destination and sometimes pictures of random food.

Don't feel held back. There tons of female solo travelers you'll meet along your journey. I started when I was in my mid twenties and swear by it. Plus, you learn a lot about yourself. Good luck and have fun! I hope to read about your travels


I recently went on my first trip. Had never stayed in a hostel. I stayed in 3 but obviously my experience is still limited. I expected to meet people to do things with and had minimal luck. I learned did not like all girl dorms. I would recommend the smallest mixed dorms available. I found it a lot easier to talk to guys. The girls were a mixed bag but were more likely to be stand-off-ish. Results will vary. Give yourself the flexibility to find what works for you. As for safety....Pick your locations with care. Get a good feel of where you're heading (ie: map your walk) before you leave so you aren't standing around looking vulnerable (particularly at night). You'll be fine. Tons of people do it. Just be vigilant and take the normal care you would at home.


28 year old female solo traveller here, I've been doing it since I was your age. My recommendation would be to do a Europe trip before you do Asia, as there will be less culture shock and language barrier. Ireland and/or the UK would be a great way to get your feet wet. You're an adult now, your mom doesn't control your life, but going somewhere where they speak English and with low crime rates would probabaly help put her mind at ease.

Use your gut. If you wouldn't trust it at home, don't trust it abroad. But don't let that stop you having a good time.


I just turned 21 and I started solo travelling when I was 18 and my mum still hates it. Unfortunately, I don't have any other family members that do as much travelling as I do to compare to or learn from. I’m the absolute worst traveller for my mum to have as a daughter because I’m very spontaneous and I don’t always travel with an itinerary and often times decide to go to other cities/countries within 15 minutes (not kidding). Biggest tips I have is just to be confident and travel smart. I know that is very broad but trust your gut. If you have a bad feeling about something or someone, you’re probably right. Don’t be afraid to say no and ask questions to the people around you! I can’t express how often trusting my gut has saved me. Keep an open mind, always be aware, do your research, learn from other people’s experiences. To give my mum peace of mind, I share my location with her via Find My Friends on iPhone so she can see where I am when she gets curious. Not exactly sure how often she checks it when I’m travelling but just telling her about it gave her some peace. I also let her know my flight information for when I depart and come back; especially because the flights or travelling in between is never set in stone for me haha. I haven’t lived at home since I graduated high school and I’ve just been living on my own in the city, working, and travelling around since. The experiences you gain and the memories you make, along with the friends you make, will make it worth it! Your mother will come around eventually— she’ll never stop worrying but one day she’ll understand when she sees how happy it makes you!


Thank you! I think my mom is worried because I’m the youngest and my siblings are in their thirties already. I completely forgot find your friends was even a thing, I’ll definitely set that up for her. I also want to be a more spontaneous traveler, just being able to go where I want when I want. Which is why solo traveling is so appealing to me. I’m glad you’ve been having good experiences, I hope you continue to have safe travels :)


No problem! Can’t wait to hear what your experiences are like in future posts. The people you meet on your trip will be key! Most people are incredibly friendly and hostels are a great place to meet like-minded people.


Never leave your drink alone! Any drink! And never show someone the place where you're staying at! Good luck, going solo is the best experience :)


It's not for everyone but when I was 19 I went to Europe solo. What I ended up doing was half my time I was on a organized tour (I went with contiki but there are plenty of others) and the other half of my time I went with a couple of girls I met on the tour (I was planning on going solo). I dont regret a single thing! It's a super efficient way to see tons of the area you're traveling, you get to meet tons of people and it helps you kinda ease into the whole planning thing. Again it's not for everyone but I really enjoyed my experience. Other than that everyone elses advice here is dead on! Good luck and have fun in your travels :)


Solo travel can be great and you being a woman can easily get included in almost any group of travelers out there. I will say this though, your mom is a bit correct in that men are typically not preyed upon. But that shouldn't stop you, but just be aware of it and be more cautious.

Thailand is great, super cheap, lots of people to meet, Bangkok is good for like 4 days at most, and then I'd head to the south islands, crabbie I believe is the party island, but the area in the south is beautiful. Philippines is great too, Vietnam is nice. Hong Kong is fine, but expensive.

Europe, almost always expensive unless you go to the more Eastern European countries. Ukraine is nice, Croatia is beautiful and cheap, Budapest is beautiful and not too expensive, Bucharest is cheap and fun, check republic is cheap and beautiful, Berlin is a party town, but really neat, Paris is expensive, but you have to visit. Spain is really great, northern Italy is just ok, Florence is beautiful, Venice as meh.

But just remember, always be careful!

The generator hostel in Berlin is pretty great for meeting people as well.


I would say to be slow and steady. Start with places you consider the safest just to become familiar and get some travel experience, practice and confidence before going to relatively unsafe places.


Go for it!

I had a blast last year doing Interrail - Berlin, Cologne, Brussels, London, Cork, Prague, Vienna…it's amazing to travel by train to get to each city.

My biggest advice: Get comfortable clothes, a high quality backpack, good shoes (the Swiss On Clouds for example) as you will be on your foot a lot! It's the best way anyway to get a good feeling of a city/culture.

Also, use apps like Tinder, Kik (in Germany) and Jodel. You will meet amazing, like-minded people most likely.


Just trust your gut. Do a bit of research on common scams, dangerous areas where you're traveling, and know that most people aren't out to get you.

A little street smarts will go a long way.

Don't drink a beverage you didn't watch being prepared (within reason - if it's a big restaurant with a kitchen that brings you drinks, you're fine), and don't leave it unsupervised at any point.

If you're wandering around at night, know where you are and pay attention to what's going on around you.

Ask questions when you get somewhere to learn a little bit about what's normal and what's not in that area - if you're staying in an Airbnb, your host should be able to give you local insight. If you're in a hostel, the front desk staff and other residents will probably be able to help out.

Check out Meetup and Girl Gone International if you want to meet people while you're traveling.


The way I started out solo travelling (I’m 25 F) was on a group tour. It was a great way to feel confident in cities abroad and get to know how I might feel staying in hostels etc. I’m much more happy thinking about staying in hostels now and am excited for my next trip!


I began traveling abroad when I was 18 - my parents encouraged it so that I could learn to independently navigate my way around the world.

Someone has probably already suggested this, but get guide books for the countries you intend to visit. Fodors has some very good ones. The guidebooks will give you insight into the customs, history, things to do, places to go, etc. Also, learn basic phrases in the language so that you needn’t depend on someone to speak English wherever you go. Check online forums for country-specific travelers’ experiences.

Also, I often purchase online tickets in advance for events that I want to see, especially if there’s a high demand. (For example, I usually travel to Eastern Europe at Christmas time because it’s very traditional and festive that time of the year in places like Prague, Budapest and Vienna, so I purchase my ticket to see The Nutcracker well in advance to ensure a good seat).

Be open to new experiences and be vigilant about your safety always. Most of all, enjoy yourself and have a fabulous trip!


Hey chick,

First off - congrats on making the decision! You’ll get a lot of negative comments from people being a solo female but keep in mind they are closed minded and have NO POSITION to tell you what you can and can’t do.

My biggest tip is walk with confidence no matter where you are. Keep your shoulders back, eyes forward. If you have to use a GPS, set it up whilst you’re in a safe place and keep your phone in your pocket. Use one headphone and listen to where it guides you.

Do not be afraid to be a bitch to strangers. You do not owe them anything. A strong NO goes a long way in any language (bad people aside)

Be as safe as you can be and HAVE FUN! It’ll show you more things about yourself than anything at home!


Look after yourself. I have a habit of getting sick whilst travelling, usually a combination of poor diet, lack of sleep etc. Take care of yourself, eat vegetables, and a rest day every now and then to get enough sleep xx


I was writing a book for people like you/your mom! My mom is, too, an amazon worrier. She prides herself in it. She gave me this same speech. I challenged all her worries with my plan. (I would call home on X days*, I would stick to my itinerary, I had a plan!) she couldn't really complain after I showed her my plan.

I will second/echo what everyone else here has said- except no one mentioned a local sim card for your phone. For me- this was a game changer. Maps, sure. But local sim card to stay connected and have the internet at my fingertips (for recommendations, translations and maps and whatever? priceless......)

I'll also note- that after I came back (my first trip was 14 months) my mom doesn't refer to me as a "girl" anymore. I'm the brave traveler. The woman that learned more than school could have taught me. The one that did what she wasn't brave enough to do. I am a different person to everyone in my family because I did this.


Wow a 14 month trip sounds amazing. Where did you go ?

I’m for sure going to get some sort of SIM card because I would feel very vulnerable with limited phone access while away from home. Thank you !


I started by driving across the states, selling my car in LA, flew to Belize, went down through central America, West coast of South America... Ran out of money- applied for the work- holiday visa in Australia. Went there for 8 months. Saved up money. Went to SEA, India, Philippines, (survived/helped after typhoon), went back to SE asia and then flew home.

Coming home was hard. Traveling was easy... I had reverse culture shock like no one's business.... I got depressed. So I got a shit job and saved up money and went to Africa for 9 months. Fell in and out of love. Came back. Rinse and repeat.....


Maybe look into Work Away if you’re going to be traveling for a while. It’s a website with job offerings for places like hostels or house sitting so it’s a great way to meet people while also getting a place to stay for a few weeks! Use the Couch Surfing app to stay with locals and make friends (but make sure you read the host’s reviews!!!). Stay at hostels and hang out in the common room! Bring a journal and a book because sometimes it can get lonely. Go on tinder dates lol...never really led me to any romance but just friends who led to other fun opportunities. It’s also fun to go on a date with a local! Just wander the cities and check out the non-touristy areas. Try WWOOFing! It’s working on an organic farm for two weeks or more. I did in Austria on a family farm in the Alps and it was amazing!


I was just looking at work away last night ! I found one for a vineyard in Italy and that sounds like an amazing experience. I’ve never heard of WWOOFing but I’ll look into it. Thank you !


Stick to big cities that are popular tourist destinations for your first trip or 2. Places like London, Paris, Rome.... you get the idea. Easy to plan logistics around these for a first-timer, male or female. Later on, you'll be comfortable enough to check out more "out-the-box" destinations, and who knows you might have friends capable of joining you by then.


Don't do anything that makes you feel uncomfortable, listen to your gut and instincts. If you have time and can find one, I recommend taking a self-defense course (I would recommend to anyone to do this if you haven't already anyway).

Since your 20 I would be careful with alcohol. If you like to party, then go and have a good time. But just because you CAN drink in other countries doesn't mean you HAVE to. I spent most of my solo time sober and doing early morning activities as this is my personality. I went out a few nights with groups from my hostel but didn't feel I was "missing out" by going to bed at 10 pm. Just do what you love, not what is expected.

I've seen it listed but sending a quick text or email every day to your family helps them not worry. Also downloading the city maps ahead helped me too as mentioned.

Be open to possibilities. Don't let being alone by yourself for the first time stop you from doing something.

Forgot to mention, if wearing a ring or telling people you are meeting people helps do it. Don't advertise you are alone but you don't have to be overly exaggerating. I never wore rings or lied about meeting people but I also acted smart. Act the same way you would here in a big city. I've honestly felt less safe traveling alone here in the US than abroad.


Personally, I have a one drink limit when I travel alone. I always have a plan to get back to wherever I'm staying (make sure Uber/Lyft/taxis are accessible and still running.) Although I'm sure it'd be fine, I tend to avoid public transportation after a certain time. I'm probably overcautious, but I tend to be a lightweight with alcohol and like to play it on the safe side.

I've been in a handful of situations when someone has approached me and made me feel uncomfortable during solo travel, and I'd encourage you to do two things:

Never tell them you are traveling alone. Always have a "friend" or a family member you're "meeting up with."

Don't hesitate to walk away. You don't need to be polite or explain yourself - walk away.

That all being said, I haven't had too many awkward experiences. Good luck!

I get the same reaction from my mom. You can always take a self defense class too to help her stop worrying. I suggest picking an English speaking country since it is your first trip. Or start with one while you are getting your groove going with traveling. Expect that things will go wrong and there will be lots of little annoying things that you couldn’t have seen coming. The thing about traveling is to go with the flow. If some of your plans fall through, just move on and find something else to do. I usually plan big things like where I am sleeping and transportation but I never try to plan little details like how long to visit a site. You will have a great time! Some things will be scary but that’s ok. It’s all a learning experience.

-scan an image of your passport in case you lose it.

-upload your travel plans to the passport website in case of an emergency.

-pack light! I prefer a pack rather than a suitcase.

-bring a padlock for the hostels (you can choose to have your own room or share with others)

-if you get motion sick, bring Dramamine!